# Database-Management-Room-Reservation-Management-System

The project is a database solution for Concord Housing which rents properties to customers in New York. Concord Housing has around 50 properties which it rents out to customers for a temporary period. It also provides additional facilities like food and other recreational facilities to the customers during their stay at Concord Housing. The organization is handled by the main owner of the company and caretakers of each property. The customer has to reserve a property by physically being present at the booking place with some amount of advance payment. The customer has to provide his ID proof at the time of making a reservation and also while check-in.

Currently, the administrator and the staff have to reply to email queries and accept room reservations over the phone. Moreover, a single person has to manually update the reservations coming in from all the distributed networks. Considering the fact that most of the reservation systems have a complicated distribution network with a wide range of agents, this can be an extremely difficult task. Apart from that, collection of data is an important factor to consider, especially in the hospitality sector where customers are demanding a more personalized experience. Without an online booking system, it is difficult to know in depth about the customer i.e. where the customers are coming from, what are their preferences and why are they visiting a particular destination. Collecting data about customers helps in improving the overall user experience. Another problem in using a manual system is that it is quite possible that more reservations are accepted than there is room for. Overbooking creates leads to hassles which affect the customer experience.

Room reservation management system can solve all of these issues. Firstly, it simplifies the administrative process of accepting reservations. This can help the rest of the staff to be more organized and efficient because everyone will have access to live information about the current occupancy at the hotel. All live rates and availability are automatically updated by the system. The room reservation system also reduces the risk of overbooking and increases the overall smoothness of the reservation process. Also, collecting data about customers becomes easy through an online room reservation management system. This data can be compiled into comprehensive reports that help in improving the customer experience.
